look at your dog a sweet furry guy with
soft paws a wagging tail and puppy eyes
that can melt the heart of a stone and
now brace yourself your beloved pooch
may be lying to you right at this moment
at least that's the conclusion made by a
study published in 2017 in the journal
animal cognition so Swiss researchers
decided to check if dogs such lovable
innocent creatures could actually use
their charm to make people do what they
wanted I know how could such a
ridiculous idea even come to mind in any
case they decided to get to the bottom
of this theory the researchers chose 27
dogs aged one to 14 years old and
trained them to distinguish between two
women according to how generous they
were with food so one woman always
treated the dogs with something tasty
while the other just showed the tree to
the animals and then put it back into
her pocket yes she was that mean later
on special tests showed that the dogs
preferred you'll never guess the woman
generous with treats poun so far it
doesn't really sound too surprising
I mean I'd also choose the person who
fed me tasty stuff but wait there's more
to this research after the dogs had
caught on which person was let's say
competitive meaning the one who kept the
food for herself and which one was
cooperative
meaning sharing tasty things they were
invited to a special room there were
three boxes inside one with sausage
slices the second with not so appealing
dry treats and the third with nothing
amazingly after several attempts the dog
started to take the cooperative woman to
the treat they liked the most and the
competitive woman to the empty box in
other words the dogs lied and altered
their behavior to change the situation
for their own benefit how cool is that
according to the researchers it means
that dogs realize their actions will
influence the behavior of those around
them are there any other stories that
can prove the idea of innocent pooches
manipulating you well and
for example one dog called max pretended
to see something exciting in the yard
and when his fellow dog Lucy rushed
outside to check what it was
max occupied the best sleeping spot and
what about dogs that pretend to be
hungry to get one more meal from a
different family member if you're a
happy dog owner this situation might
ring a bell right
another furball used to run up to the
windows and start barking
every time the owner looked out he would
see nothing but he patted the pooch
anyway saying good guarding the man was
sure that dogs couldn't lie or deceive
you in his opinion they might miss read
a situation but never manipulated their
owners well I wouldn't be so sure but
what do you think ten dogs actually be
manipulative let me know down in the
comments dogs are such fascinating
creatures that people have been studying
them for years and naturally this isn't
the only research that reveals their
unusual traits and skills for example in
2008 researchers from the University of
Vienna studied 43 trained dogs from 14
different breeds the scientists wanted
to find out whether man's best friend
felt emotions like envy or jealousy the
results of their experiment were nothing
but surprising the dogs were supposed to
shake paws every time the researchers
asked them to and they eagerly followed
the orders until they discovered that
other dogs got better treats were doing
the same thing after that the dogs who
weren't given the best treats began to
obey much less often just 13 out of 30
times they also looked stressed and
licked and scratched themselves all in
all they clearly showed how dismayed
they were about the unfairness of the
world it's tough being a dog on top of
that the same dogs were calm and
indifferent when they were ignored but
as soon as their owner began to shower a
stuffed dog with attention the pooches
turned into evil beasts they started to
snarl snap and try to
the toy out of the owners hands under
the influence of the green-eyed monster
but dogs being jealous envious and
manipulative is not the end of the story
it turns out that your pooch can be
either an optimist or a pessimist
scientists at the University of Sydney
ran special tests on a group of 40 dogs
to figure out whether each animal was
more of a pessimist or an optimist and
after that the real fun began
the dogs learned to touch a target that
could spurt out either milk or water
every time a dog touched the target a
particular tone played soon the pooches
understood which sound meant milk and
which one stood for water and they
started to touch the target only after
the milk tone but then the researchers
played a trick on the four dogs they
began to play new sounds which were the
combination of the water tone and the
milk tone that probably made the dogs
think well this kinda sounds like milk
but not exactly or maybe it's water
help I'm starting to panic obviously the
scientists weren't able to read the
pooches mind but with the help of this
experiment they managed to confirm that
dogs are either optimists or pessimists
the optimistic dogs kept hitting the
target when they heard unclear signals
even though they got water every single
time they just went on trying again and
again these dogs never lost hope as for
the pessimistic pooches they refused to
risk and even want to take chances they
pretended to be busy with licking their
paws they looked away from the target
and some of them even chose to lie down
on their beds and pout all in the end
the researchers found that six dogs were
optimists 6 pooches were pessimist and
the rest were somewhere in the middle
between seeing the world in dark colors
and living on the bright side
interesting link pessimistic dogs also
showed much more prominent signs of
separation anxiety than their more
optimistic mates on the whole dogs have
way more developed emotions than you
might have thought
for example in 2012 scientists from the
University of London proved that dogs do
feel empathy 18 dogs stayed in the room
with their owner or a stranger who
either carried out a quiet conversation
or hummed something however sometimes
the people pretended to cry it turned
out that no dogs reacted to a
conversation and only a few paid
attention to the odd humming but almost
all the dogs came up to the human who
pretended to be cried the pooches were
obviously offering comfort and looked
very concerned about the person's
condition but the most startling fact
was that animals didn't distinguish
between crying people they were ready to
comfort an unhappy stranger as willingly
as their own master dogs aren't only
incredibly empathetic they are also
really intelligent according to
scientists some of these smartest dog
breeds are Border Collies poodles golden
retrievers Dobermans and German
shepherds ever notice that your pooch
ignores your commands during a walk in
the local park don't blame it if your
pet just thinks that your order is
unreasonable
several studies discovered that dogs may
disregard their owners bad advice if it
knows a more efficient way to solve some
tasks it will use it on top of that your
dog may refuse to fetch a ball or carry
a stick if it sees that other nearby
dogs get better rewards for the same
tasks look at your pet its head is
cowered its ears are flat against its
head and these trophy eyes oh what a
perfect picture of guilt you know what
right now you're fooling yourself
scientists believe that dogs cannot feel
guilt
researchers from Barnard College New
York City ran a series of tests that
involved 14 dogs the pooches had to stay
alone in a room with a treat after their
owners had told them not to eat it and
left then the people returned and
scolded their pets no matter whether the
animals had eaten the treat or not and
guess what both the dogs that had eaten
the treat and the obedient ones reacted
in the same way every single time
head flat ears and puppy eyes this way
the researchers concluded that the dogs
guilty look is nothing but the reaction
to their owners scolding on the other
hand the same scientists admit that it
may not mean that your beloved pooch
doesn't feel ashamed after having chewed
up your new sneakers do you know any
other cool facts about dogs
if so sound off in the comments section
below remember to hit the like button
share this video with your friends who
love dogs as much as you do and click
Subscribe that's a sure way to get on
the bright side of life
[Music]